and welcome back to natural language
processing we're going to continue with
a very short segment
are a very important component of
computer science and natural language
processing because they're very popular
these days we have for example a person
interacting with a computer and asking
questions and getting answers so I'm
going to show you first an example of a
video that you can watch yourselves on
YouTube the link is shown here
it's a famous skit for more than 50
years ago by Abbott and Costello there
are having a serious misunderstanding
and when they discuss the names of
baseball players so the name of the skit
is who's on first and the funny thing
about the skit is that the name of one
of the players is who so when one of the
participants in the conversation says
something like who's on first he's not
really asking a question he's actually
making a statement as saying that who is
the name of the person on first base and
the second person doesn't understand
this and ask some funny follow-up
questions and so on and it turns out
that the name of the second baseman is
what and the third baseman is I don't
know so you can imagine how funny this
dialogue can get so I encourage you to
watch it by ourselves so as you see
dialogue has some interesting properties
the very least is that it involves more
than one person so therefore whenever
somebody asks a question they're usually
expecting an answer and if one of the
participants in the dialogue makes a
pause that means that it may be time for
the other person to start talking again
so this idea is called turn-taking so
two people or more than two people take
terms there are some specific rules for
turn-taking so for example people are
not expected to interrupt others unless
there's a good reason or unless a lot of
time has elapsed so there's an idea of
default turn-taking rule which says more
or less that you say what you want to
say and then you give a chance to the
other participant to say whatever they
want to say and so on so this is the
default and there are many exceptions to
it so the only places where it is
possible to have a change of terms is
when you're at a relevant place for
example after pause or after question
barge in is possible and it has to be
analyzed separately
another interesting property of dialogue
systems is the southern called
conversational implicature so in
implicature have some shared information
between the participants in the dialogue
so here's an example if a says how can I
help you and then B says I'm looking for
a Thai restaurant so this is a typical
example of dialogue so what is clear is
that the first person is willing to help
the second person is looking for a
specific restaurant and then they
probably know in what neighborhood they
are located so the first person is not
going to send a second person to a Thai
restaurant in a different location or to
a Mexican restaurant so if this is part
of their shared information so
implicature is the term that refers to
meaningful inferences that the listener
can make so we're going to see some
examples of this later
so Grice's Maxim's refer to some
properties of dialogue that make it
easier to understand and more logical so
here are some of them so the first one
is the so called maxim of quantity so
the idea is that you want to make your
contribution to the dialogue informative
you don't want to say either too much or
too little second one is the maxim of
quality so you want to say only things
that you believe are true and don't say
things that for which you lack evidence
the third one is the maximum relevance
fourth one is maximum of manner so you
want to avoid ambiguities in the
discourse so dialogue is a collaborative
endeavor and it is expected that all
participants are going to make an effort
to make it possible for the other party
to understand what is going on
so here is a Nakhla problem on Grice's
Maxim's I'm going to show it to you very
briefly and then I'm going to pause so
that you can try to solve it on your own
so the poem is about a robot that
teaches players how to play a card game
the robots name is GGG and it has to
follow the following Maxim's and guises
less relevance manner quantity and
quality and it is that it gives you
hints as to which cards to play so
please read this carefully and try to
solve this power
and the goal here is to understand the
following things if the robot gives you
some particular piece of advice you have
to determine whether that sentence
violates any of the Maxim's and if yes
which one so this is the first part of
the question and then there's two
additional components and then on the
next slide I'm going to show you the
answer so the final thing that I want to
mention about discourse dialogue
analysis is speech acts so speech acts
are some specific expressions that are
not just factual statements so for
example assertive
things like suggesting putting forward
swearing boasting and concluding
directives things like asking ordering
requesting inviting advising and begging
Cammisa --vs that includes promising
planning vowing betting and opposing
expresses for example thanking
apologizing welcoming and deploring and
finally declarations things like I
resign or you're fired so if I say I
resign I'm not just saying that I resign
I'm also taking an action and if I say
you're fired as a result of the sentence
the second person has lost their job so
some action has taken place even though
it's just a sentence to conclude this
segment I'm going to go over the typical
architecture of a dialogue system so it
involves typically the following
components of understanding component
which makes sense of the sentences asked
by the human then a dialogue manager
which based on what it has heard from
the user continues to carry on the
dialogue by asking follow-up questions I
should also say that there are there
exists so called a mixed initiative
dialogue systems where the system may be
the one who interacts with the user
first then is a task manager so based on
the dialogue manager the system may
decide for example to send a query to a
database of let's say airplane
reservations or some search engine the
output of the task manager is then sent
back to the dialogue manager which
generates an answer to the user and then
this can go in a loop if necessary
example the generation may involve some
follow-up questions and then there may
be some additional rounds of
understanding and dialogue management
and generation until the task has been
completed and one other interesting
property of discourse that I didn't
mention before is the idea of positi
supposedly is a property of text that
deals with issues like rhythm and
intonation and stress so there has been
a lot of work in the speech literature
and a naturalization literature of on
identifying this kind of pause Adak
expressions and the features in
documents especially spoken documents
those are important because a lot of
text especially in user-generated
content and social media is used to
express emotions and emphases and so
it's very important for good natural
language understanding system to be
fluent in people's use of porosity so
here's an example of one specific
instance of positive called emphasis I'm
going to show you one sentence and then
I'm going to propose seven different
ways to pronounce it and you will see
that each of those ways to pronounce it
will have a very different meaning so
here's the sentence I never said you
stole my money and the task that you
have right now in front of you is to say
the sentence seven times and each time
you should emphasize one of the words in
the sentence in order so first time you
say you have a size I then never and so
on and try to see how much the meaning
of the sentence changes because of this
emphasis so clearly this is something
that you can only the computer can only
understand in the case of spoken text if
you just have it in text you would never
be able to recognize the emphasis
although it is completely possible that
if somebody wanted to convey the same
idea in written text they could use
something like italics or bold face or
stars around words to indicate which
word they're emphasizing so there's a
lot of interesting work that has been
done and it can still be done in the NOP
community on paws of the recognition and
also I should mention positive
generations if you want to produce more
effective more effective
you would want to use automatic positive
generation so this concludes the segment
on dialogue and I'm going to see you in
the next segment